From 8 to

Create a file as .gitignore and try all these below commands inside that file. Not on terminal/

gitIgnore Rules :-

    *.a : Will ignore all the files with extention .a
    *.[ao] : Will ignore all the files that have extention .a or .o
    !lib.a : Will not ignore lib.a file
    /todo : This will ignore the file. If it's in same directory and irrespective of the location inside that directory. 
            (see diff b/w)
    test/ : Will Ignore all the files in test folder.
    ? : It Matches a single character. 
        Eg- l?b.?xt - this will ignore all the files that starts with l and ends with b and has 1 character in between. 
        Same for extention.
    subDir/ : Will ignore all the files inside subDir directory. (subDir is the name of the directory)

Removing a file :-
    If the file is un modified :
        git rm <filename> : this will remove the file. Then we need to commit and push the file. (No need to add)
    If the file is modified then we need to force remove:
        git rm -f <filename> : this will remove the file. Then we need to commit and push the file. (No need to add)

Command - amend :-
    Syntax : git commit --amend
             Used when we want to add minor changes to last commit without increasing the number of commits or with new commit
             It's used when changes are commited and not pushed
             It replaces the previous commit with the new one
             After running this command a new window will pop up
             Press i to edit the commit message
             Then press ESC and then give :wq to come out of the new window(:wq stands for write and quit)

Command - reset Head :-
    Syntax : git reset HEAD <filename>
             It moves a file from staging area to modified state

Command - checkout :-
    Syntax : git checkout -- <filename>
             It will undo the changes made in that file (modified to unmodified state)

Command - stash :-
    Syntax : git stash
             It saves the changes made to a file to different place and moves the file to unmodified state
    Syntax : git stash pop
             It applies the saved changes again and file is modified
    Syntax : git stash clear
             It deletes the stash

Command - restore :-
    Syntax : git restore --staged <filename>
             this will move the file from staged area to modified state 
    Syntax : git restore <filename>
             this will make the file unmodified from modified state. (removes the changes)